docs: How to setup oauth provider Grafana (#542)
kinvolk/lokomotive: docs/how-to-guides/setup-thirdparty-auth-for-grafana.md

> # How to setup third party OAuth for Grafana?

Reviewer: Is the question mark necessary here?

## Contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Steps](#steps)
* [What's next?](#whats-next)

## Introduction

This document explains how to enable any supported auth provider on Grafana deployed as a part of Prometheus Operator.

## Prerequisites

> - On Packet: You have a DNS entry in any DNS provider for `grafana.mydomain.net` against the Packet EIP.

Reviewer: I think it would be good to clarify, if user should have prometheus operator already installed, or we **install it with  third party auth support**.

Author: What do you mean? Can you elaborate on this? The doc is such that it does not matter if user has prometheus-operator installed or not they will eventually install it in this doc.

Reviewer: If we instruct a user to create a configuration file, then we assume it's a fresh installation IMO.

Author: added a OR to the create file line.

Reviewer: Thanks, looks good!

- On AWS: You don't have to make any special DNS entries. Just make sure that the `grafana.ingress.host` value is `grafana.<CLUSTER NAME>.<AWS DNS ZONE>`.

## Steps

**NOTE**: This guide assumes that the underlying cloud platform is Packet and the OAuth provider is GitHub. For other OAuth providers the steps are the same but the secret parameters will change as mentioned in [Step 3](#step-3).

#### Step 1

- Create a GitHub OAuth application as documented in the [Grafana docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/auth/github/).
- Set **Homepage URL** to https://grafana.mydomain.net. This should be same as the `grafana.ingress.host` or `grafana.<CLUSTER NAME>.<AWS DNS ZONE>` as shown in [Step 2](#step-2).
- Set **Authorization callback URL** to https://grafana.mydomain.net/login/github.
- Make a note of `Client ID` and `Client Secret`, they will be needed in [Step 3](#step-3).

#### Step 2

> Create a file named `prometheus-operator.lokocfg` file with the following contents:

Reviewer: Should we be opinionated about the file name? Can we say **configure the component**, for example by running the following command (include `cat <<EOF > ./prometheus-operator.lokocfg` command here).

Author: I didn't want to confuse user since there is lot of information in this doc so giving definite steps in some places is fine IMO.

Reviewer: Thanks for changing, it looks good to me now.

component "prometheus-operator" {
  namespace = "monitoring"

  grafana {
    secret_env = var.grafana_secret_env
    ingress {
      host = "grafana.mydomain.net"
    }
  }
}
```

Observe the value of variable `secret_env` it should match the name of variable to be created in [Step 3](#step-3).

#### Step 3

Create a `lokofg.vars` file or add the following to an existing file, setting the values of this secret as needed:

```tf
grafana_secret_env = {
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ENABLED" = "'true'"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ALLOW_SIGN_UP" = "'true'"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID" = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET" = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_SCOPES" = "user:email,read:org"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_AUTH_URL" = "https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_TOKEN_URL" = "https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_API_URL" = "https://api.github.com/user"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGANIZATIONS" = "YOUR_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGANIZATIONS"
}
```

**NOTE**: In the above configuration, boolean values are set to `"'true'"` instead of plain `"true"` because Kubernetes expects the key value pair to be of type string and not boolean.

> Replace `YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID` with `Client ID` and `YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET` with `Client Secret` collected in [Step 1](#step-1).

Reviewer: We could even include the secret env map into the configuration and only ask user to provide client secret and client id, what do you think?

Author: Can you elaborate what do you mean by ` include the secret env map into the configuration` ?

Reviewer: We could suggest the following configuration:
```hcl
component "prometheus-operator" {
  namespace = "monitoring"
  grafana {
    secret_env = {
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ENABLED" = "'true'"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ALLOW_SIGN_UP" = "'true'"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID" = var.github_app_client_id
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET" = var.github_app_client_secret
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_SCOPES" = "user:email,read:org"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_AUTH_URL" = "https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_TOKEN_URL" = "https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token"
     "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_API_URL" = "https://api.github.com/user"
     "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGANIZATIONS" = var.github_allowed_organizations
    }

    ingress {
      host = "grafana.mydomain.net"
    }
  }
}
```

In general, perhaps having a more detailed guide, so explaining how to set it up with GitHub and then adding side notes how to apply that for other providers, seems like a simpler approach to me.

Author: done.

Modify the values of the GitHub Auth configuration from

> ```ini

Reviewer: Where do user get this format (so we ask them to modify from it)?

Author: From the grafana docs as mentioned in step 1. https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/auth/github/

> # How to setup third party OAuth for Grafana

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Setting up third party OAuth for Grafana
```

## Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Steps](#steps)
  - [Step 1: Create Github application](#step-1-create-github-application)
  - [Step 2: Add `prometheus-operator` component configuration](#step-2-add-prometheus-operator-component-configuration)
  - [Step 3: Add secret information](#step-3-add-secret-information)
  - [Step 4: Deploy and access the dashboard](#step-4-deploy-and-access-the-dashboard)
- [Additional resources](#additional-resources)

## Introduction

Grafana is a sub-component deployed as a part of Lokomotive's `prometheus-operator` component. By

> default you can provide admin user password for Grafana, but what if you want to allow your team

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
default you can provide an admin user password for Grafana, but what if you want to allow your team
```

variable "gf_auth_github_client_secret" {}
variable "gf_auth_github_allowed_orgs" {}

component "prometheus-operator" {
  grafana {
    secret_env = {
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ENABLED"               = "'true'"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ALLOW_SIGN_UP"         = "'true'"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_SCOPES"                = "user:email,read:org"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_AUTH_URL"              = "https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_TOKEN_URL"             = "https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_API_URL"               = "https://api.github.com/user"
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID"             = var.gf_auth_github_client_id
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET"         = var.gf_auth_github_client_secret
      "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGANIZATIONS" = var.gf_auth_github_allowed_orgs
    }

    ingress {
      host = "grafana.<cluster name>.<DNS zone>"
    }
  }
}
```

> **NOTE**: On Packet, you either need to create a DNS entry for `grafana.<cluster name>.<DNS zone>`
> and point it to the Packet external IP for the contour service (see the [Packet ingress guide for
> more details](./ingress-with-contour-metallb.md)) or use the [External DNS

> > component](../configuration-reference/components/external-dns.md).

Reviewer 3: Does this still make sense if we ask for the External DNS component in the prerequisites?

Author: I would like to keep it just in case someone is not using external dns and would want to have setup done manually.

> **NOTE**: In the above configuration, boolean values are set to `"'true'"` instead of bare
> `"true"` because Kubernetes expects the key-value pair to be of type `map[string]string` and not

> > `map[string]bool`.

Reviewer 3: Mentioning `map[string]string` and such seems too detailed for a howto, but I don't have a better suggestion...

Author: Yeah I thought how best to put it but I think as programmers this makes most sense to convey why it does not work.

### Step 3: Add secret information

Create a `lokofg.vars` file or add the following to an existing file, setting the values of this
secret as needed:

```tf
gf_auth_github_client_id     = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID"
gf_auth_github_client_secret = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET"
gf_auth_github_allowed_orgs  = "YOUR_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGANIZATIONS"
```

Replace `YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID` with `Client ID` and `YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET` with
`Client Secret` collected in [Step 1](#step-1-create-github-application). And replace

> `YOUR_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGANIZATIONS` with Github organization that your users belong to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`YOUR_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGANIZATIONS` with the Github organization that your users belong to.
```

### Step 4: Deploy and access the dashboard

Deploy the `prometheus-operator` component using the following command:

```bash
lokoctl component apply prometheus-operator
```

> Go to `https://grafana.<cluster name>.<DNS zone>` and use the newly appeared **Sign in with GitHub**

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need to mention "newly appeared" as it seems distracting for the user.

```suggestion
Go to `https://grafana.<cluster name>.<DNS zone>` and use the **Sign in with GitHub**
```

button, to sign in with Github.

## Additional resources

- Other auth providers for Grafana:
  https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/auth/overview/#user-authentication-overview

- Component `prometheus-operator`'s configuration reference can be found
  [here](../configuration-reference/components/prometheus-operator.md).

> - Find details on how to setup monitoring with `prometheus-operator` component

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Find details on how to setup monitoring with the `prometheus-operator` component
```

# How to setup third party OAuth for Grafana?

## Contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Steps](#steps)
* [What's next?](#whats-next)

## Introduction

> This document will help you to enable any supported auth provider on Grafana deployed as a part of Prometheus Operator.

Reviewer 3: Let's avoid future tense and be a bit more descriptive.
```suggestion
This document explains how to enable any supported auth provider on Grafana deployed as a part of Prometheus Operator.
```

## Prerequisites

- On Packet: You have a DNS entry in any DNS provider for `grafana.mydomain.net` against the Packet EIP.
- On AWS: You don't have to make any special DNS entries. Just make sure that the `grafana.ingress.host` value is `grafana.<CLUSTER NAME>.<AWS DNS ZONE>`.

## Steps

> **NOTE**: This guide assumes that the underlying cloud platform is Packet and the OAuth provider is Github. For other OAuth providers the steps are the same just the secret parameters will change as mentioned in [Step 3](#step-3).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: This guide assumes that the underlying cloud platform is Packet and the OAuth provider is GitHub. For other OAuth providers the steps are the same but the secret parameters will change as mentioned in [Step 3](#step-3).
```

#### Step 1

> - Create a Github OAuth application as documented in [Grafana docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/auth/github/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Create a GitHub OAuth application as documented in the [Grafana docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/auth/github/).
```

> - Set the **Homepage URL** to https://grafana.mydomain.net. This should be same as the `grafana.ingress.host` or `grafana.<CLUSTER NAME>.<AWS DNS ZONE>` as shown in [Step 2](#step-2).

Reviewer 3: Nit: "Homepage URL" is a field so it doesn't need the article
```suggestion
- Set **Homepage URL** to https://grafana.mydomain.net. This should be same as the `grafana.ingress.host` or `grafana.<CLUSTER NAME>.<AWS DNS ZONE>` as shown in [Step 2](#step-2).
```

> - Set the **Authorization callback URL** to https://grafana.mydomain.net/login/github.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Set **Authorization callback URL** to https://grafana.mydomain.net/login/github.
```

> - Make a note of `Client ID` and `Client Secret` it will be needed in [Step 3](#step-3) and set as environment variable `GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` and `GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` respectively.

Reviewer 3: I find mentioning what they should be set to confusing, let's wait until Step 3.

```suggestion
- Make a note of `Client ID` and `Client Secret`, they will be needed in [Step 3](#step-3).
```

#### Step 2

> Create `prometheus-operator.lokocfg` file with following contents:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a file named `prometheus-operator.lokocfg` with the following contents:
```

```tf
component "prometheus-operator" {
  namespace = "monitoring"

  grafana {
    secret_env = var.grafana_secret_env
    ingress {
      host = "grafana.mydomain.net"
    }
  }
}
```

> Observe the value of variable `secret_env` it should match the name of variable to be created in [Step 3](#step-3).

Reviewer 3: I'd move this to Step 3 after defining the variable so the attention doesn't jump back and forth too much.

Author: Step 3 is loaded with lot of information, I think keeping it in step2 and since it is in vicinity of step3 there won't be a lot of jumping.

#### Step 3

> Create `lokofg.vars` file or add following to an existing file, populate the values of this secret as needed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a `lokofg.vars` file or add the following to an existing file, setting the values of this secret as needed:
```

```tf
grafana_secret_env = {
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ENABLED" = "'true'"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ALLOW_SIGN_UP" = "'true'"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID" = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET" = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_SCOPES" = "user:email,read:org"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_AUTH_URL" = "https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_TOKEN_URL" = "https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_API_URL" = "https://api.github.com/user"
  "GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGANIZATIONS" = "YOUR_GITHUB_ALLOWED_ORGANIZATIONS"
}
```

> **NOTE**: In above configs the boolean value is set to `"'true'"` instead of plain `"true"` because Kubernetes expects the key value pair to be of type string and not boolean.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: In the above configuration, boolean values are set to `"'true'"` instead of plain `"true"` because Kubernetes expects the key value pair to be of type string and not boolean.
```

> Modify the values of Github Auth configuration from

Reviewer 3: I'm a bit confused from this point, where should users change this? How does changing "ini" syntax to yaml work?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Modify the values of the GitHub Auth configuration from
```

Author: > I'm a bit confused from this point, where should users change this?

If users refer to the Grafana docs then they should change the values specified in the ini file to look like as shown in our docs.

> How does changing "ini" syntax to yaml work?

It is a manual work to convert the ini file to terraform key value pairs.

```ini
[auth.github]
enabled = true
client_id = YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID
...
```

to look like following:

```yaml
"GF_AUTH_GITHUB_ENABLED" = "'true'"
"GF_AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID" = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID"
```

The section name `[auth.github]` should be prepended with `GF_` and the name should be capitalised and `.` be replaced with `_`.

Deploy the prometheus operator using following command:

```bash
lokoctl component apply prometheus-operator
```

#### Step 4

> Goto https://grafana.mydomain.net and now you will a special button **Sign in with GitHub**, use that to sign in with Github.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Go to https://grafana.mydomain.net and use the new **Sign in with GitHub** button to sign in with GitHub.
```
